# Comparison of Multi-threading between C++ and Rust (OpenMP vs Rayon)

## Summary
We implemented and compared four benchmarks in Rust and C++ using Rayon and OpenMP respectively. To provide in-depth comparison, we have used multiple configurations for each benchmark. Rayon performed as good as OpenMP in cases where the underlying algorithm or compiler gave an advantage or edge. The downfalls of Rayon are the under-optimized computing function, cost of creating splits of work, and stealing when compared to a possible static scheduling. Rayon performed better for sorting and multiplication of larger matrices. In all other benchmarks, OpenMP had the upper hand. Another advantage Rayon possessed was the failure in compilation of code that had unsafe sharing of variables between threads, allowing us to write correct code always. 

## Motivation
Over the course of 15-618, we have learned that in order to scale the performance of a software with the hardware, we as developers need to write concurrent, fast and correct applications. While decomposing a given algorithm into parallel workloads, developers need to be careful about new kinds of error including deadlock, livelock and data-races. Hence, in order to get improved performance through parallelism, we need to understand the nuances of these errors and anticipate them in advance.

What Rust believes to provide is an abstraction for thread-safety with zero-cost, thus becoming highly popular among industries and developers (Mozilla being the strongest influence). Rust enables safe concurrency with data locks and message-based communication channels. Furthermore, Rust performs compile time analysis on threads data behavior to determine potential problems. Rust’s ownership construct and concurrency rules offer powerful compile time tool to help programmers write safe and efficient concurrent programs. Through this project, we want to get a deeper understanding of how Rust solves the issue of data-races and what speed it provides against C++, as it promises to solve many of the issues a programmer faces when parallelizing C++ code, at zero-cost. Rust provides various libraries (called as crates) for multithreading abstraction. Rayon and Crossbeam are two of the most popular ones, as suggested by the Rust community. 


